At the beginning of the design, I felt it was important to design with consistency, convention (placement of buttons), and placement. Evaluating this design now does show that I have meet most of these design considerations, but I felt like I could have done more to improve the flow of the design. At the same time, it worth thinking about how 'less is more.'

I believe as part of my reflection it is beneficial to briefly discuss the pros and cons of the design as a whole.

Starting with the pro's, I feel like the design reaches a certain standard that is modern. This can be observed in serval places, such as the use of curved buttons and boxes, updating live presentation elements, and the use of universal icons that convey an intuitive action or process. These are all important design traits to consider and I believe that there is value in taking the time to reflect on this. I have gained an appreciation for the aesthetic view of websites. With this, I have learned that websites should be not only functional but appealing to the user. There is a balance to be met between these two factors, too much functionality and you lose the interest users, too much aesthetic and you lose the website's purpose. 

Another pro that I believe that the design excels in is the student actions around the website. The main elements that convey this are the navigation bar and the student home action buttons. The navigation bar is consistent throughout the time that the student is logged in. It is the 'go-to' element to escape or return to the landing student home page. The buttons under student actions are simple and do not need length explains. The student user will have the common sense to know that clicking the 'create a question button' will take them through the process of creating a question. This improves on the current Peerwise website, where this is a lot of text explanations for common sense tasks. With this, I have realised that the website and design should work with the user. Learning that most users will find a website that is simple and intuitive is easier to use than an overexplained and complicated design.

Moving to the cons, one consistent problem that I had when designing was whitespace. I found the balance between space and elements sometimes difficult to design. There are examples were this was done well (e.g. signup/login page) and where some pages just have too many elements (e.g. student home and creating a question). I believe I could have improved on this by instead of trying to fit everything on one page, proving a scroll bar for the page. Doing this would have made the home page much easier to read, as the basic facts would be at the top of the page (and as the user wants to know more) scrolling down reveals more detailed information. Taking this into account made me understand more about the phrase 'less is more' and learning that some whitespace is beneficial to the design layout (if used correctly).

An additional feature that I would consider a con were the prompts that were required to be answered each time a question was created or answered. The main reason I choose to use prompts was the follow-through to keep each of my scenarios the same. The problem with these prompts was not so much for initially creating a single question, but for a user who wanted to create multiple questions. I realised that it would make much more sense to either make an additional prompt for the number of questions to be created (not ideal) or going straight to the template and customising the question/s from the question properties box (more ideal). This would be something I would definitely change because of the learning that comes with it. Users don't want to be asked repeated questions, but instead, the website should by default use the setting that the user selected before.