Initially when first creating the drafts of several persona’s, I didn’t expect the university students to have similar views, when drawing conclusions from Peerwise’s existing SQS solution. I now realise that this makes sense, as being a student is an occupation and shares many familiar tasks. Such as, everyone needs to study, be able to get some form of feedback, to make and learn from mistakes. As I am also a student myself, I can relate to these tasks and challenges.

I would have also thought that the students would have been more interested in what the system featured technically. It was at this moment that I learned an appreciation, for the fact that not all students would care about the technical aspects, but rather general usability views. This also makes sense, since I am a software engineering student, and it is very likely that a lot of students who use the SQS will not be interested in the software engineering side of things. Hence why I have learnt a sense of empathy for students who have different ranges of knowledge, priorities, values and views.

I found that the overall process of writing personas helped me to gain a greater understanding of users and the SQS. One aspect that was interesting to me was the development of a personality for each persona. Such as the attitudes, motivations, priorities and information processing. Initially I thought that the level of detail for each persona was a bit overkill, but I see now that it is necessary to have a persona that can be related to. 

Even if not all descriptions of persona’s are considered, there remains a good coverage of what a typical user might act, think and talk like. Furthermore, this is also portrayed by the aid of a visual profile picture, which also helps to reinforce the idea that this could be a real user of the SQS system.
 
When also reading about the requirements of the personas. I was unsure of why there had to be a certain order in the way personas were listed. I can gather why the importance of having an order, such as knowing the most popular and common user to use the SQS. However, I think that it is also important to show persona’s as of equal importance. Since this is an SQS, it does make sense to adhere to a certain order of students who will commonly use the system. 

If it was a different system though, the order of personas might change (e.g. different versions or types of a popular operating system). This may need a more equalized approach to a system for many different users. One specific example I can think of is the release of Windows XP. Which aimed to give a user-friendly system to consumers, while also providing companies professional and administrative tools to use.
