When I was thinking about how I would portray the essential use cases, I was in a technical mindset for the interactions for an SQS. I then realised that this would be problematic for the future of the SQS design, as it wouldn’t describe the ‘essential functionality.’ I learnt that I would need to put myself into my persona’s shoes. To think about how the persona and SQS would perform together with requests and responses to complete a task. 

As developing the essential use cases, I found myself dealing with some conditions. An example of this is when John is creating a question and will either know the answer to the question (yes) or not (no). I dealt with this problem by choosing one condition, then adapting the table structure so that if needed, the other condition could be substituted in place. In addition I learnt that this would be better than creating more scenarios to cover all these conditions, as they are the essential use cases, these tasks should be implemented first.

In the third scenario, I came across another tricky condition which was how to show a true and false (repeated) condition. Without including the technical code which would need to be implemented, I decided to use visual arrows, with red representing false and green representing true. I would expect that this will get the basic idea across.

Furthermore when writing the scenarios, I was wondering if it would be worth implementing a use case for user authentication. I could see many benefits that this would bring to the system but also a greater level of complexity to the SQS system. I decided to leave this ‘security’ feature out for the design process as functionality should come before security regarding user interfaces. However, authentication should not be completely ignored. If the SQS system were to become popular with lots of users, security would also become a priority. I have learnt not to completely disregard authentication within these scenarios, but to put it into a ‘backlog’ for when implementing, if it is needed.

Control I thought could also be an additional scenario. As the scenario’s only considers university students use cases. I believe that such a scenario is not essential enough but may become more relevant if the SQS would be integrated within a university.

Overall there are many scenarios that could be used with addition to the three above, but since I only have a certain amount of time, I am satisfied that both my personas and scenarios share an appreciation of empathy for users. I have also learnt that there is a possibility that different persona’s and scenarios could have been created, opposed to mine, depending on their user’s views and perspectives for a SQS.
